## CGI-BIN conversion notes.

The purpose of this directory is to contain the alterations for the CGI-BIN version of HQWA.

Makefile, main.c and common.c are overwritten with the versions in this directory.
httpcgi.c and menucgi.c are added.
savescreen.c and gamelogic00.c are ignored (if not deleted).

HQWA.ico is the icon file for the CGI-BIN directory

The rest of the listings and logic adjust themselves to running in a CGI-BIN setup, thanks to a #define in common.c that triggers #ifdef and #ifndef statements in the other listings.

It should be noted that I have never compiled the CGI-BIN version of this program under Windows. The Win32 sections have been removed from common.h. When you are targetting running the CGI-BIN versions under Linux Cloud VMs, as opposed to Windows Cloud VMs (which are more expensive due to licensing cost), that tends to happen.

As a running environment, I run this under Apache2, with CGI-BIN support of course (either enabled via LoadModule, or compiled in).

One key feature of the program is where it keeps its save files.

When the REMOTE_USER environment variable is populated, the program reads the HQWAv0.71.conf file, extracts the base location of the user directory, and adds the REMOTE_USER environment variable onto the end of the path. Without the REMOTE_USER being set, all save files are saved/loaded in the location extracted from SCRIPT_FILENAME.

REMOTE_USER is either non-existant, or empty, when not using a user authentication scheme (such as MD5digest or basic).

When working with SCRIPT_FILENAME, the code is working with /'s and not \'s, which is why it is likely to fail in a windows environment.

To enable "Debug mode", the URL can be changed from HQWAv0.71.cgi to HQWAv0.71.cheat.cgi (you can either rename the file, copy or symlink it). When the code recognises when it is in "Debug mode", and keeps the path to HQWAv0.71.cheat.cgi intact for the post operations. "Debug mode" is the same as the -D flag for the CURSES command line version.


The code refers to a file called "user-css.conf" in the same directory as the save files (same directory as the CGI program in single user mode, or where HQWAv0.71.conf points to in multi-user mode).

The contents of the file is maintained by main.cgi (which is the main menu of the site). It is common across all of the games that I have written, which is why there is nothing inside HQWA to maintain it. However, HQWA picks up the contents of the file and includes it into every page render (except for the error messages).

If the file isn't there, HQWA defaults to a "white on black monospace" setting for the CSS data that is put into the output HTML.

Here is what the "black on white monospace" contents of "user-css.conf" looks like.

body { font-family: "Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace;
color: black;
background-color: white }
#past { color: #C71585;
background-color: white }
a { font-family: "Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace;
font-weight: bold;
text-decoration: underline;
color: black;
background-color: white }


M100
